in 2045 the planet is on the brink of
chaos and collapse
but people find salvation in the oasis
an
expansive virtual reality universe
created by james holliday
when holliday dies he promises his
immense fortune to the first person
to discover a digital easter egg that's
hidden somewhere in the oasis
when young wade watts joins the contest
he finds himself becoming an unlikely
hero
in a reality-bending treasure hunt
through a fantastical world of mystery
discovery and danger the contest has
lured a number of gunters
or egg hunters and the interest of nolan
sorrento
the ceo of innovative online industries
who seeks to control the oasis himself
in order to insert intrusive online
advertising
ioi uses a number of indentured servants
as well as an
army of employees called sixers to find
the egg
wade watts is an 18 year old living in
columbus ohio
with his aunt alice and her abusive
boyfriend rick wade's avatar parzabal
and avid gunter participates in the
first challenge
an unbeatable race alongside his best
friend
h and art iii miss a female avatar
who parzival has a crush on parzival
regularly visits holiday's journals
a simulated archive of holiday's life
and hobbies
run by the curator acknowledging a
phrase by holiday
wade realizes the race can be won by
driving backwards
receiving the copper key from anorak r3
miss
etch and his friends daito and show all
win the race thereafter
later collectively named the high five
on the oasis scoreboard
sorrento asked the mercenary iroc to
learn wade's true identity
with the intent of bribing him to win
the contest on ioi's behalf
wade and art three myths discover from
the journals that holliday once dated
morrow's wife karen kyrah underwood
but holliday's anxiety led them to
watching a movie rather than go dancing
wade and art three miss visit the
distracted globe nightclub to look for
clues
where wade confesses his love and true
name to art three miss
they survive an ioi raid in which art
iii miss abandons wave
explaining that her father died in debt
to ioi
iroc who was eavesdropping on their
conversation
informed sorrento of his findings
sorrento contacts wade with his offer
when rejected sorrento destroys wade's
home
killing alice and rick among others art
three misses player samantha cook
takes weight in together they realize
the second challenge
relates to holliday's regret toward not
pursuing a relationship with kira
along with etch daiito and show parzival
and art iii myths
search a recreation of the overlook
hotel from the shining
art iii miss asks keira to a dance and
wins the jade key
sorrento's subordinate finale zandor
storms the gunders hideout taking
samantha to an ioi loyalty center to pay
off her father's debt
wade escapes with the help of the other
high five users
helen harris h toshiro gaito
and zhao show in helen's truck by
hacking sorrento's oasis rig
the group learned where samantha is
being held allowing her to escape
confinement the third challenge is found
in castellano rack on planet doom
where players must guess holiday's
favorite atari 2600 game to earn the
crystal key
iroc places a force field around the
castle using the orb of osibox
but r3 miss is able to deactivate it the
high five lead an army of oasis players
against the sixers
sorrento fights back in mecca godzilla
but each
daito and art three mist destroy his
avatar using the iron giant
a gundam and a madball shaped bomb
parzival destroys samantha's avatar
allowing her to flee ioi
and is picked up by the high five
parzival reaches the console but
sorrento detonates the cataclys bomb
wiping out every avatar on planet doom
including himself
parzival survives using an extra life
coin given to him earlier by the curator
in a bet
he plays adventure winning the crystal
key by locating its programmer's easter
egg
he uses the three keys to enter a
treasure room where anorak offers him a
contract to sign
parzival recognizes it as the one morrow
signed when holliday forced him out of
the gregarious games
and refuses to sign it anorak transforms
into holiday
who expresses his regrets in life
handing over the easter egg
sorrento confronts the high five but
relents upon seeing wade with the egg
he and finale are arrested for the
bombing ogden morrow appears
revealing he is the curator wade decides
to run the oasis with the high five
inviting morrow to join them as a
consultant the ioi loyalty centers are
shut down
while the high five make the
controversial choice to close the oasis
every tuesday and thursday
so people can spend time in the real
[Music]
world